I'm so excited to be here today with
these luminary CMOS my name is Carri L
Dietrich I'm a former CMO most notably
the head of marketing that took at
lassan public today I'm here with Rick
Schultz uh a former colleague of mine at
Oracle and the current CMO of data
bricks thanks for having me here and
Janine Pelosi the former CMO of Zoom for
more than 10 years from early stage
startup to billion multi-billion dollar
company and Ryan Carlson the former CMO
of OCTA again having started at a tiny
company and ridden almost a decade to a
massive company today we're going to
cover seven big mistakes that CMOS
make so the first one we're going to hit
on is strategy so Janine and I talked a
lot about this one because many CMOS
come up from a functional expertise they
learn how to do their job but they might
not be involved in the Strategic
discussion happening in the seite Janine
this was a mistake you saw others make
but really leaned into yourself tell us
a little bit more about that I I think
maybe from coming in early on I came in
to start the marketing function there it
was really about just driving revenue
and surviving right I think you go
through different stages and you need
different things out of your leaders
survival mode was that in the beginning
so it was always thinking about the
company first and what had to happen and
then thinking about what hat you had to
put on and typically that was the
marketing hat in my case but sometimes
it was the sales or thinking about
Finance or other areas of the business
and context to what you need to deliver
in your function to be successful and
without that context you lose out on
that and you got pretty deep you were
one of four Executives that were really
active in the IPO you were thinking
about net new products you were doing
sales teritory planning you were not
just in your lane of marketing mqls like
what led you to have that kind of hunger
and tenacity yeah it was context and I
believe Eric is a phenomenal founder
CEO it was about the best ideas and it
was a culture of I would say really a
Level Playing Field it was best ideas
one and it didn't matter so when we
thought about driving quarter over
quarter what was required we put more
pressure on ourselves than anybody ever
could have it was profitable or best
before anybody was talking about that
triple digit same thing right growth
mattered and and it was all of us
getting into a room coming up with that
plan and I think that creates ownership
over those plans right if you're given
an objective that you don't have the
context for you're unlikely to meet or
succeed so you'll hear me talk about
context but I believe the why in that
context is really critical for the whole
company to be Marching In One Direction
and another thing that comes up a lot
when CMOS are potentially looking going
to be replaced by their CEO aren't
working out like 6 years 10 years and 8
years up here is that they haven't built
the right leadership team so when we
were talking about what are some of the
biggest mistakes we've made in our
careers Rick you really brought up
building the executive team around you
was one of the the biggest mistakes
you'd seen and things you'd leaned into
I would say almost nothing you'll do
will be more important than building the
right team and so we put a lot of
thought into the team we built and we
had some we've had been to have some
pretty hypergrowth years where um we've
hired 175 marketers on um from almost a
very tiny team uh in the last six years
and there were some years where we had
to hire like 40 to 50 people on a base
of 20 or 25 and when you're hiring those
kind of numbers but you also have a
really high bar we have a very thorough
process keep the bar high as like one of
our company cultural principles and we
have certain standards and I'd say the
two mistakes you can easily fall into
number one is not investing enough time
and I always talk to my leaders about
this because when you're trying to hire
the best of the best like really high
bar but you also need to do it really
fast those two things tug at opposite
ends of the spectrum and so the only way
you can do it is just invests enormous
inordinate amount of time so I always
say okay think about how many hours this
search is going to take by the time
research talk to candidates do your
Outreach talk to some deep candidates
many times do your back Channel
reference checks all of that added up
maybe it's going to be like a 200 hour
search you're just deciding how many
weeks you spread it over based on how
many hours you spend every week on
hiring and when you're in that phase of
you got a hire but you really want to
keep the bar High nothing replaces how
much time you're going to invest in
other words if it's going to take 200
hours and you're spend you need to spend
20 hours a week to get it done that
quarter if you spend 10 hours a week
it's going to take you two quarters and
a quarter is an eternity in in a startup
that's one thing the second mistake
which I've fallen into myself sometimes
is you start to get in that ation where
you compromise a principle you have in
our case that principle is we look for
long-term company Builders we look for
other people who've been five six 7
eight years and been promoted and built
other companies and Longevity matters a
lot and then every now and then have a
leader and kind of we get involved in
this discussion we get we convince each
other that like it's okay to actually
hire someone who's moved around a lot
more which again that might be fine for
some but for us that was not part of our
hiring principles and so we B the
principal and 99% of time you regret it
you should have just stuck to your
original principles yeah hiring is hard
and firing boldly to get the right team
in place is probably the hardest thing
leaders have to do the third biggest
mistake that we talked about was setting
the right metrics so you've got the
strategy you got the team in place what
are the right goals and metrics and Ryan
you really had some opinions here where
you made a wrong choice on a short-term
metric and led the team in the wrong
direction but then recovered it so tell
us more about that first I can't help
but comment on what Rick and Janine both
talked about CU I think they're
connected and I think Janine's point is
worth repeating that marketing shouldn't
be something you do at the end everybody
thinks about marketing is I'm launching
this product or I'm launching this
company I'm trying to get Buzz I'm
trying to get recognition I'm trying to
get awareness I'm trying to generate
pipeline yes marketing has to do those
things but I think if marketing is going
to do its job well it has to be involved
in the the company creation the story
for why does this company exist what do
we value Rick you were talking about
your values that's as much marketing as
anything else and so I I I see a lot of
Founders who look to hire somebody to
come in and be bolted on but if you're
looking at building a team don't
overlook people who are inside your
company who have been there from the
very beginning one thing that we all
have in common is we were very early at
these companies and so when we told the
company's story and connected it back to
the values and why does this company
matter we did so with credibility
because we were there from the beginning
and that was as much our story as
anybody else is so I think those two
things are related I know a lot of
Founders are thinking about hiring
marketers and if you do interview them
asked them about metrics cuz the mistake
that I made I thought I was being a
really great leader I thought I was
being so smart so strategic I was going
to tell everybody that pipeline mattered
and I was going to do that in a couple
of ways every meeting we had whether it
was my staff meeting or extended
leadership meeting or the marketing All
Hands it started with the same agenda
item number one how are we doing with
pipeline generation in the quarter I
wanted people to know that it was
important so we put it first but I also
wanted everybody to know that the
pipeline was their responsibility not
just the demand gen teams but what I
didn't realize what I was doing when I
put that number big in lights and made
it so important was that people would
focus on that to the expense of all
other things and we were organizing a
dinner between our CEO and CEOs of
Fortune 500 companies that's a high
stress activity to get a dinner like
that set up and the person who was
organizing it she said Ryan I don't
think we should do this dinner I said
why she's like I'm not going to show any
stage two pipeline created from this
activity and that's when I I wasn't
happy with that conversation but I was
more unhappy with myself because I put
us in that situation so then we came up
with a a balance scorecard which looked
at yes the number one thing is pipeline
generation but there are many other
things around that we should also
measure and I think we're going to come
back to this because one of the things I
think I've named it number six but I
should have named it number four now
that we've had the conversation this way
but one of the things I see at earlier
stage startups is that the marketers
don't put in place their attribution
tracking and they really don't have the
Tex stack and they can't see into the
right data so they not only don't have a
balanced scorecard with the right
awareness lead pipeline cost per
opportunity metrics that are so
important to track they can't track them
and see through to them so I think
bringing number six forward both having
the right goals and then the right Tech
stack and marketing operations team is
really critical so moving along back on
track to the the numbers the next one is
number four not investing early enough
in brand and so Rick you've said less so
now at data bricks but at alrix before
you were really focused on demand gen
and hadn't invested as much early in
brand and that that turned out to be
something you really changed when you
came to data bricks yeah I think it's a
little similar to what Ryan's point
about particularly in the early days you
can easily become so pipeline focused
because it's like air you need the
pipeline of course and it's like
everything it's like air water shelter
everything is pipeline but I do think
kind of looking back it was a mistake in
prate company not to be more intentional
and thoughtful about the brand earlier
on in the life cycle of the growth of
the company and by the way brand
awareness doesn't need mean you need to
like right away go spend a lot of money
on like a bunch of billboards or
anything like that it's a Natural
Evolution but your brand is really your
reputation right so it's like you should
be thoughtful and intentional about what
does your brand mean what does it stand
for and then as you keep growing like
really codifying that making sure your
visual identity the language you use the
way you show show up at events all of
that stuff reflects the brand and the
rep creates a reputation that's the
reputation you want in the market
and yeah I think we invested earlier at
data bricks in doing those kinds of
things actually in fact we have some of
the same people who worked with ran at
OCTA because I always thought they did a
great job at OCTA with that and did a
great job building their brand and then
once you have it like codified even when
you have like customers telling the
story for you and stuff you can have
them tell the story the way you want
them to tell like if you're trying to
emphasize Innovation they can talk about
what they're doing that's super
Innovative or what whatever the thing is
but you got to do that early and that
leads right into the next mistake that
we were talking about which was having a
strong consistent messaging and again I
I said before Rick and I met when we
were at Oracle I was running awareness
advertising I wrote ads for the front
page of the Wall Street Journal Larry
Ellison had to approve every ad and
sometimes we would complain that it was
so boring because a it was the same ad
format with that red bar and two we
would keep the same message for what I
thought was an inordinate amount of time
but it turned out that in all the
research we had the best awareness and
associ iation of the brand to other
things and not flip-flopping really made
a huge difference um and Ryan you had
talked about that I think that just this
consistent messaging is a problem you've
seen so many CMOS fall into or
inconsistent messaging and one that you
had focused on yeah I think it's
understandable there's a lot of pressure
on marketing to come up with ideas it's
it's the creative field what's this new
idea and if you're consistent with your
messaging it doesn't look new but it it
is important for your messaging if it's
what I said up front connected back to
why the company matters what you stand
for and what is your purpose that
consistent messaging can be really
impactful long term and you have to
resist the temptation to to change just
for change's sake and while while we're
on this topic I can't help but um give
Janine some praise because she came in
early uh to one of my marketing all
hands and did a guest talk at OCTA and
we brought her in part because we
thought everybody's familiar with zoom's
out of home advertising strategy in the
early days and we didn't know how you
could do that because investing in brand
is is hard because What's the phrase I
know half of my advertising dollars work
I just don't know which half it's hard
as a new CMO or a growth Focus company
to justify spending money in that way
and you all did such a great job because
you were uh clever in how you you did
your out of home advertising you didn't
use a big branding firm and an agency
you came up with a lot of those taglines
that you'd see on the billboard
yourselves isn't that right yeah we did
it all in house and that's where you
know it doesn't have to be super sexy
but it also doesn't have to be
incredibly boring and I think it goes
back to the metrics we couldn't find any
metrics any vendor anything
traditionally out there for the type of
advertising that we were doing we were
the cold emails that would come to us at
the time for the sides of buses in San
Francisco and the rest of it like nobody
was using those and and so we created
our own basically PRI proprietary way of
of measuring this it was you know where
are the visits coming from what's
happening in these different territories
and regions and that was our own way of
measuring and so we could and we knew
which half but we said the same thing
right all over the place and it worked
it sticks by the way can I just can I
just riy said the messaging thing I
think is so important to have the
consistency through all the channels at
the same time but also the you're
talking about consistency is more like
what I call stamina which is like stick
with it because I think it's easy to
underestimate how long it takes to
hammer a message into the market it
takes many quarters sometimes years and
so you do really have to resist that
Temptation I find I guess what you
called Whiplash to change it too
frequently and we all fall into that
trap sometimes so for me it's a little
bit like the hiring thing where you
might have the right principle and then
every now and then you compromise it and
you just regret it so it's I think for
me the Common Thread there is like stick
to your principles don't compromise them
I've heard that just as you're starting
to get bored your customers are just
starting to hear your message so we live
inside the echo chamber but our
customers do not live in that Echo
chamber with us yep we're going to keep
moving along so I think the seventh
mistake that we had highlighted which I
think is ever more present now is not
being your best self in tough times and
how the tougher the times are the more
it takes from you as a leader to be your
best self and not be impatient and rude
and irritable and stay level-m minded
and and Janine you just had such a
lovely quote about how you guys thought
about leadership in tough times yeah
Zoom had a pretty historic ride through
IP and contributed a lot to society over
the past few years and with that came a
lot of challenges a lot of growth we
went from I think it was right around
2400 employees to over 8,000 in about 18
months there was some
unprecedented scale and growth that we
went through good and bad and all the
trying things that you mentioned but
what it came down to and I was given
this advice is and the advice was in the
context of a lot of people getting it
wrong growth hides problems flat out
right the time to be tough on your team
is when you are doing well right the
time to be empathetic is when the
company is having a really tough time
and so often that is flip-flopped and so
the only way to get around that is is
think about what is what could growth be
hiding and that gives you air cover
right and if you're private all the
better right it gets a lot harder doing
that in the public markets right so
finding that balance is pretty critical
yeah it's tough times for all of us in
different markets and different ways
okay so one of the things that Founders
want to know is how do they find the
next you right the average tenure of a
CMO is a couple years people change
messaging CU they Chang CMOS like spring
outfits so tell us a little bit about
how you ended up at your company because
Ryan you joined when it was 10 million
in Revenue no no not so actually the
funny story I met OCTA when there were
nine people and I had spent my entire
career before that in product management
product marketing and I tried to get
them to hire me to be their first head
of products and I went through four or
five rounds of interviews and didn't get
the job um but I became convinced that
what Todd and Freddy were building was
going to be not just a successful
company but one you'd be proud to be
part of so I stayed on them for nine
months uh and then when they eventually
wanted to build Out product marketing
they gave me a shot at that and I still
almost didn't get hired but I convinced
them to to take a shot on me and I build
Out product marketing for the first
couple of years and we in the early days
we didn't find the right CMO and a lot
for a lot of the reasons I was talking
about and so my big piece of advice when
I talk to a lot of Founders is is you
certainly want to look for the person
who's been there and done it and manag a
team that you're aspiring to be like and
you're going to grow into but don't
overlook the person that's there that
has Drive ambition has a chip on their
shoulder one of the challenges with with
getting somebody who's been there and
done it is do they have that drive to do
it again and for me I lived in breed
OCTA I told that story better than
anybody and it was still not easy for me
to get the CMO job but I'm lucky they
took a chance on me yeah don't overlook
somebody who lives and breathes your
company cuz cuz that's super important
okay hunger and and knowledge and Janine
I I was stalking you before I got to
meet you and I listened to a bunch of
your podcast and one of the things I had
learned about you was that you worked
with the CEO before and you worked in
the same kind of category before so you
came in so primed to really help him
flourish i' tell a little bit about that
story I'd say and the reason being is
because part of why Eric ran the company
the way that he has is because of his
prior experience where there was not a a
line or there was a brick wall almost
between go to market and what was
happening on the engineering and product
side and it was not something he wanted
to replicate and so while we had some
shared experiences we hadn't worked
super close together um but we
definitely I think had that drive that
kind of Builder mentality we operate
with this immense sense of urgency which
which is Fun the advice I give when ask
this question is find a company that you
admire and then hire the person one
level below somebody who has something
to prove who is probably doing a ton of
the work and think about where you are
as a company you don't need to go and be
very careful about when and who you hire
and the skill set that you need at that
time versus thinking about what it is
that you need this person to grow into
if you find someone who's selfmotivated
continues to develop themselves and is
open to that then they can grow with the
company and if not then maybe it's time
to part ways and find someone else but
don't overlook what you need in the
short term because as many of if you
can't get past that short term there is
no long term i' just like to thank these
fantastic CMOS for joining us today
thank
you and thank you to Jason and um
Caitlyn and all the saster folks for
making this all possible so thanks and
have a great conference